packages/hardhat-create2-proxy/README.md, before:

# Hardhat Kadena chainweb Plugin

`@kadena/hardhat-create2-proxy` is a Hardhat plugin that allows Ethereum developers to deploy their own create2proxy on chianweb evm.

This plugin uses [`@kadena/hardhat-kadena`](../hardhat-kadena) plugin.

## Contract addresses problem

In the Ethereum the contract addresses derive from msg.sender + nonce. Since nonce changes for each transaction, that makes contract addresses unpredictable. create2 solves this issue. However, the create2 opcode can only be used from soldity (or Yul) code. We therefore need a create2 factory in order to have the same address on all chains.

## Solution

This plugin creates a single purpose key from the deployer key and uses that key only for deploying the create2proxy, not any other type of tx. This way the nonce will always be 0 for a new create2 factory deployment. That means that the resulting create2 factory address stays the same on all chains.

## Installation

```bash
npm install @kadena/hardhat-create2-proxy
# or
yarn add @kadena/hardhat-create2-proxy
# or
pnpm install @kadena/hardhat-create2-proxy
```

## Quick Start

1. Import the plugin in your `hardhat.config.ts` (or `.js`):

```typescript
import '@kadena/hardhat-chainweb';
```

2. Add basic configuration:

```typescript
module.exports = {
  solidity: '0.8.20',
  chainweb: {
    hardhat: {
      chains: 3, // Creates a 3-chain network
    },
  },
};
```

3. Using:

```TypeScript
import { chainweb } from 'hardhat';

// deploy your create 2 proxy on all chains if not deployed;
const create2Factories = await chainweb.create2.deployCreate2Factory();
// create2Factory[0].contract // factory deployed on the first chain
// create2Factory[2].contract // factory deployed on the second chain

// deploy your contract on all chains
const { deployments } = await chainweb.create2.deployContractOnChainsDeterministic({
  name: 'SimpleToken',
  constructorArgs: [ethers.parseUnits('1000000')],
});
// deployments[0].contract // deployed contract on first chian
```

## API Reference

### Hardhat Runtime Environment Extensions

The plugin adds `create2` property to `hre.chainweb` the Hardhat Runtime Environment (HRE):

```ts
export interface Create2Helpers {
  // deploy create2proxy contract by using the signer key. the default value is the hardhat first account
  deployCreate2Factory: (signer?: Signer) => Promise<
    [
      contractAddress: string,
      deployments: {
        contract: unknown;
        address: string;
        chain: number;
        deployer: string;
        network: {
          chainId: number;
          name: string;
        };
      }[],
    ]
  >;
  // returns create2proxy address by using the signer key. the default value is the hardhat first account
  getCreate2FactoryAddress: (signer?: Signer) => Promise<string>;

  // deploy the contract using the default create2proxy; if ypu want different proxy you can use the create2proxy property
  deployUsingCreate2: (args: {
    name: string;
    signer?: Signer;
    factoryOptions?: FactoryOptions;
    constructorArgs?: ContractMethodArgs;
    overrides?: Overrides;
    salt: BytesLike;
    create2proxy?: string;
  }) => Promise<{
    deployments: Array<{
      contract: BaseContract & {
        deploymentTransaction(): ContractTransactionResponse;
      };
      address: string;
      chain: number;
      network: {
        name: string;
      };
    }>;
  }>;

  // return the contract address before deploying it.
  predictContractAddress: (
    contractBytecode: string,
    salt: BytesLike,
    create2proxy?: string,
  ) => Promise<string>;
}
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Add Important Considerations for Deterministic Deployments to hardhat-create2-proxy README

packages/hardhat-create2-proxy/README.md, after:

# Hardhat Kadena chainweb Plugin

`@kadena/hardhat-create2-proxy` is a Hardhat plugin that allows Ethereum developers to deploy their own create2proxy on chianweb evm.

This plugin uses [`@kadena/hardhat-kadena`](../hardhat-kadena) plugin.

## Contract addresses problem

In the Ethereum the contract addresses derive from msg.sender + nonce. Since nonce changes for each transaction, that makes contract addresses unpredictable. create2 solves this issue. However, the create2 opcode can only be used from soldity (or Yul) code. We therefore need a create2 factory in order to have the same address on all chains.

## Solution

This plugin creates a single purpose key from the deployer key and uses that key only for deploying the create2proxy, not any other type of tx. This way the nonce will always be 0 for a new create2 factory deployment. That means that the resulting create2 factory address stays the same on all chains.

## Important Considerations for Deterministic Deployments

### Address Consistency Requirements
For Create2Factory to maintain the same address across all chains:

1. **Never use the derived secondary key for any other transactions**
   - The system will error if it detects the secondary key has a non-zero nonce
   - If this happens, you must use a new version number to generate a new secondary key

2. **Use the same signer and version when deploying to new chains**
   - To deploy to additional chains later, use the same original signer wallet and version parameter
   - Changing either will result in a different Create2Factory address, which in turn would result in a different address for the contract being deployed.

3. **Keep your original signer safe**
   - If you lose access to the original signer wallet, you can't consistently deploy to new chains
   - Consider using a hardware wallet for the original signer

4. **Version parameter**
   - The version parameter allows you to start fresh with a new secondary key when needed
   - Increment the version if you ever need to redeploy the Create2Factory with a clean state

## Installation

```bash
npm install @kadena/hardhat-create2-proxy
# or
yarn add @kadena/hardhat-create2-proxy
# or
pnpm install @kadena/hardhat-create2-proxy
```

## Quick Start

1. Import the plugin in your `hardhat.config.ts` (or `.js`):

```typescript
import '@kadena/hardhat-chainweb';
```

2. Add basic configuration:

```typescript
module.exports = {
  solidity: '0.8.20',
  chainweb: {
    hardhat: {
      chains: 3, // Creates a 3-chain network
    },
  },
};
```

3. Using:

```TypeScript
import { chainweb } from 'hardhat';

// deploy your create 2 proxy on all chains if not deployed;
const create2Factories = await chainweb.create2.deployCreate2Factory();
// create2Factory[0].contract // factory deployed on the first chain
// create2Factory[2].contract // factory deployed on the second chain

// deploy your contract on all chains
const { deployments } = await chainweb.create2.deployContractOnChainsDeterministic({
  name: 'SimpleToken',
  constructorArgs: [ethers.parseUnits('1000000')],
});
// deployments[0].contract // deployed contract on first chian
```

## API Reference

### Hardhat Runtime Environment Extensions

The plugin adds `create2` property to `hre.chainweb` the Hardhat Runtime Environment (HRE):

```ts
export interface Create2Helpers {
  // deploy create2proxy contract by using the signer key. the default value is the hardhat first account
  deployCreate2Factory: (signer?: Signer) => Promise<
    [
      contractAddress: string,
      deployments: {
        contract: unknown;
        address: string;
        chain: number;
        deployer: string;
        network: {
          chainId: number;
          name: string;
        };
      }[],
    ]
  >;
  // returns create2proxy address by using the signer key. the default value is the hardhat first account
  getCreate2FactoryAddress: (signer?: Signer) => Promise<string>;

  // deploy the contract using the default create2proxy; if ypu want different proxy you can use the create2proxy property
  deployUsingCreate2: (args: {
    name: string;
    signer?: Signer;
    factoryOptions?: FactoryOptions;
    constructorArgs?: ContractMethodArgs;
    overrides?: Overrides;
    salt: BytesLike;
    create2proxy?: string;
  }) => Promise<{
    deployments: Array<{
      contract: BaseContract & {
        deploymentTransaction(): ContractTransactionResponse;
      };
      address: string;
      chain: number;
      network: {
        name: string;
      };
    }>;
  }>;

  // return the contract address before deploying it.
  predictContractAddress: (
    contractBytecode: string,
    salt: BytesLike,
    create2proxy?: string,
  ) => Promise<string>;
}
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
